# P1

### Diverse Sub Prob $\in$ $NP$

Give a plan, we can check whether it is correct by linear scan (Using count array/hashing) in polynomial time ($O(nm)$ or $O(nm^2)$)

### Independent Set $\in$ Diverse Sub Prob

We define that in an independent set problem (For instance $I$), nodes are $n$.

In this problem (Instance $I'$), we set $n' = m' = n$。

And for $i$ th row, we set $A[i, j] = 1$ if and only if $i = j$ or $(i, j)$ has an edge.

#### $I \rightarrow I'$ 

Let $S(i)$ be the set of $j$ that $A[i, j] = 1$

For any solution that has $k$ nodes, we can choose corresponding rows, and by definition, we can know that there $S(i)$ has no intersection (Because no two nodes has an edge).

#### $I' \rightarrow I$

For any solution that has $k$ rows， we can choose nodes if we choose corresponding rows. By definition, it's an independent set of $k$



Since Independent Set $\in$ NP-Complete, So diverse Subset Problem is also in NP-Complete

# P2

For a 3-coloring instance $I$, we build a 4-color instance $I'$ as follows: let Graph in $I$ be $G$, Graph $G'$ in $I'$ based on $G$ (copy every node and edges) and then create a new dummy node $T'$ and add edge between every node and $T'$。

#### $I \rightarrow I'$ 

For every previous node, we copy the color pattern in $I$ to $I'$, and we use the 4th color (The color that not used in $I$) to color $T'$, thus for every edge, it's two sides has a different color (For previous edge it's obvious, for edge between $T'$ and previous nodes, since $T'$ has unique new color, so it must meet condition )

#### $I' \rightarrow I$

For every previous node, we copy the color pattern in $I'$ to $I$. Since $T'$ links to every other node, so previous nodes must not use the color that $T'$ uses, so they only can be colored in three colors, which is the same as the  3-color problem.

# P3

We assume $|X| = |Y| = |Z| = n$，we need to find a algorithm that $\dfrac{|ALG|}{|OPT|}=\dfrac{|M_{ALG}|}{|M_{OPT}|} \ge \dfrac{1}{3}$

Design algorithm: we choose any  $v \in T$, and remove all other element $T$ which has common point with $v$ until we can not pick anything (In other word, we pick any match until there no any match available anymore)



Prove: Let set $m = |M_{OPT}|, k = |M_{ALG}|$，$i$ th 3DM contain exactly one node in $X,Y,Z$。

For every element in $M_{ALG}$ , it has three node, so it at most cover 3 of $m$ matching in $OPT$ (Cover means at least have one element in common). We should notice that $3k$ element must cover all $m$ matching (if not, we can choose another available which is contradiction). So $3k \ge m$。$3|M_{ALG}|\ge|M_{OPT}|$ which is equivlent to $\dfrac{|M_{ALG}|}{|M_{OPT}|} \ge \dfrac{1}{3}$.

Q.E.D.

# P4

## (1)

### Bin Packing Prob $\in$ $NP$

Give a plan, we can check whether it is correct by linear scan in polynomial time ($O(nk)$ or $O(n)$ (Using count array of $k$))

### Partition $\in$ Bin Packing Prob

We define that in a partition problem (For instance $I$), there $n$ item, i-th is $w_i$ and the total weight is $W = \sum w_i$.

In this problem (Instance $I'$), we set $n' = n, K = 2$，and the $s_i = \frac{w_i}{W/2}$ and run the algorithm.

#### $I \rightarrow I'$ 

If we have a plan in partition, which means we find several item (We called them left side) which $\sum w_i = W/2$，so we consider there corresponding item in $I'$, there sum $\sum s_i = 1$。The sum of $s_i$ in rest part is also $1$。

#### $I' \rightarrow I$

If we have a plan in Bin Packing problem, we can also choose the first bin to correspond to first half of the partition problem. Same as previous, it's $\sum w_i = W/2$。

## (2)

### $\alpha = 2$

Let $S = \sum s_i$, then $|OPT| \ge S$ (At least use $\lceil S \rceil$ bin)。

Design algorithm: we pick any available item into the bin now until no one can be filled in this bin, and then we create a new bin. Also, we test the first bin and last bin, if sum of them $\le 1$, we put all last item into first one, and until the sum of first bin and last bin is greater than 1

Prove: let $m = |ALG|$, and the sum of $s_j$ in i-th bin is $v_i$。Then we must have $v_i \le 1$ and for any $1 \le i < m, 1<v_i+v_{i+1}\le 2$ (If $\le 1$, then our algorithm can put them together), also $v_1+v_m > 1$

Then $2S = 2 \sum v_i = v_1+v_{m}+\sum _{i=1}^{m-1\\} (v_i+v_{i+1})>m = |ALG|$

So $2|OPT| \ge 2S \ge |ALG|$, we have $\frac{|ALG|}{|OPT|} \le 2$

